welcome everyone to this week's ipld dev
meeting
it's august the 10th 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've worked on in the past week
and we'll work on in the next week and
then discuss
open agenda items
we might have and
this time i even have a general um
section before i start with the weekly
updates because it's kind of like
also outside people where involved so
therefore it's like not really like
when someone's played perhaps later on
someone put it on his plate i don't know
but um it's important because um
there is a change in cid
it's not a breaking change it's just a
change of the definition
what ici is
yes so we don't have a version number
for cid anymore
but the version number is actually also
a multi-codec
so this means that cid version 1
which is hex code
yeah x1 is now a proper multicodec
and in the future we will also use smart
coding so in theory
cad version 2 might not even be
having the byte value 2 but could be
byte value
whatever adequately supports
we have already reserved version two and
three in the multi-coding table because
it just makes sense to have those
numbers
but in theory it could be something else
and we yeah it we could even decide
that's like was discussed but i'm not
sure if it's a good idea
that cid version 0 is defined
as the same multi codec as
sha2 because that's what it actually is
so that the definition we could change
the definition
of what the cid version 0 is
and say the first byte is actually the
multi-codec
and then it contains the hash without a
hash identifier
in theory we could do what we probably
won't um but let's just
um yeah so anyway if anyone's who's
watching this is using cid
nothing really changes for you it's just
a matter of yeah
having it defined in a different way but
it's not really
um yeah breaking anything
um cool um
then i go on with myself so
in the rust marty hash world i've added
a few dogs to the tiny multi hatchling
library which should go upstream
and this was merged and i've also opened
an issue about
on tiny multihash which things i would
want to get fixed before
i want to upstream it to proper
smartyhash
um i haven't had that much time last
week to work on and hopefully this week
i'll have more time
and on that js ipl d side
um the changes that we use
u and eight arrays instead of node
buffers bubbled up
so it's now also in jsi panel d and the
stacks below like multiformats and so on
um but this work was basically done by
ancient brain
i just did reviews and real pieces of
the stuff but he did the hard work of
doing actually the code changes
and the only things that i kind of left
is js ipld bitcoin and js
ipld ethereum which is in which
are internally still using buffer so we
convert the stuff on the way in
and on the way out and to make it work
but ideally we would change this but
like it should be possible with
bitcoin with rod's new library that he
did probably
for ethereum ethereum this will be uh
at one point if someone creates a proper
js
ethereum library that we might want to
use which also
rotten might do in far distant future
um but i hope so so um but that's like
not anything blocking or something it's
just
yeah if you want to get rid of the full
node.js buffers in the full stack you
would need to also update those
except if we don't bundle them then it's
fine because if you don't bundle them
you don't have the dependency um
okay and that's all i have
next on my list is peter
yes uh again another underwhelming
update
uh i'm mostly still doing powerpoint
things
um for those who wonder like what's he
testing that much when we have the
entire
uh falcon oni uh team
uh what i'm focusing on is doing things
on the live chain
with all the extra nestings that comes
from
you know having more people on the chain
and having fluctuations
in how uh your messages are taking one
one minute and the next minute nothing
nothing goes on chain at all and things
like that
um and this unfortunately takes an
extraordinary amount of time
and uh discovering things in between uh
misconceptions between like the
implementation team and
the and the ce team and so on and so
forth so
a lot of uh time goes there
uh one thing that i'm kind of looking at
and
on the side uh after conversation way
back
with michael i start looking a little
bit more into
uh a wasm target for the chunker work
that i
that i did uh several months ago
um i am for now not giving up on go just
yet uh i'm looking at uh
what would it take to get tiny code to
actually produce wasn't for me
uh and i know that um some folks already
looked into that
i think from the direct project and uh
it was kind of deemed like yeah they're
they're like disabilities here and there
like some things are missing
yeah but right actually it was you i
forgot
uh and uh my thing is a little bit
simpler so i hope that in another two
three four days i can raise enough
issues and none of them can get fixed so
things can get compiled
and uh tiny go has
a really really really small output like
we're talking
two orders of magnitude smaller than
what uh normal co produces
the reason i'm still focusing on gopher
a little bit until i completely give up
is because the rust story on
multi-trading
is it's workable but it's nothing like
the go
multi-trading story uh and while it's
not interesting for wasm itself
it's interesting for having essentially
one code base that you can
both push into awesome and keep it in
goal whereas a go one can
uh saturate as many cpus you can throw
at it where if the bottom one
essentially just for for a browser and
uh
doing that in the rest on the high end
of basically pushing as much of the cpu
to do things with unmarshaled
shared memory is doable but
it's it's a lot of work it's not not
nothing i can go so that's why my team
is to try to go as far as i can with go
and
if it doesn't work then we'll switch
some parts to rest
and then threading as a whole in wassum
is really experimental
yeah oh uh yeah trading who wasn't it's
entirely experimental i'm more like
if i switch the parts that run on the
regular console like on on regular cpu
not in mosum
to rust doing the multi trading there
in a regular compilation is just
you can do it but because you
essentially have posix threads or you
have like
you know tokyo and stuff like that it's
nowhere near as low overhead as what
goal gives you for when you need
exactly the thing that i need for
basically
moving bites around i guess i can say
from diran's perspective
um there were just a couple like library
things that on the initial attempt at
tiny go failed and we didn't spend much
time looking into it i suspect with not
too much effort we could have gotten
a tiny go compilation target but it
wasn't
it was a web demo that we were aiming
for so we really didn't need it
okay um
next on my list is rod
okay i've had my head in
go all week
looking at the far coin um
doing some doing a bunch of work to uh
well i got the docs merged the ones i
wrote so that's all merged so actually
the go doc now should be up
into the notes
so that that's good uh that was a big
chunk of work but that was
from like two weeks ago um
yeah okay
um so
there's just a bunch of to-do's that
came out of that uh you know
concerns about the code and some
suggestions for changes
um so one of them was the
the collapse algorithm um that keeps the
hampton in the right shape when you
delete elements um so the idea is that
the hemp should only have one form
for any given set of data so when you
delete it needs to
wind back into the right shape and the
collapse algorithm that didn't look
right at all to me is
it's like this looks both incomplete but
also a little bit wrong
and um after pushing it a lot with like
different
you know forcing it into different
situations it it seems to be it seemed
to be
working just fine so it's just written
in a way
that was not how i
uh conceptualized the algorithm in my
head and i think part of that is go
and just just the way that it's it's
written as well so
um so i i i cleaned up the code anyway
and put some extra things in there to
make it much more explicit what's
happening
um and there's a full request for that
in uh
the go hemp ipld um and i
um cleaned up the
oh you know and this and some next chest
for that as well
for the collapse stuff um
then what i spent most of my time was
this block load time validation work so
um it's the hampton is really loose
about what it accepts and it sort of
it'll try and pass a block and then try
and navigate it
and just sort of fail when it absolutely
can't so i've made it much more strict
now about
when it loads a block that um
it'll it'll check does this block match
my expectations of what a block should
look like
um and so it's the kind of thing we were
doing in schemas if
we had all that stuff ready like we we
might be able to assert a lot of the
stuff i did
um but this involved um doing
a lot of um generating a lot of manual c
board to force it to
in the tests to force it to fail
validation on a bunch of different
shapes
um so there's a link there to
pull request with all that work um
i'm happy with that but it's it's pretty
strict now um
it's not it's not gonna
accept anything that doesn't smell right
um
um oh yeah and then so
the the next things that are coming up i
think uh now that i've done some work
around the seaboard format
so validating that it accepts the right
just the right thing
um there's a couple of things now that
will change the format
so i've got some tests now that have the
format
explicitly hard coded now i'm going to
change the format
and i'll be able to do that with the
test and say no these things need to
change
from map from arrays to maps or whatever
it is
whatever it is that i'm doing um so
there's two things one of them is um
the bit field in this hand is quite go
specific
uh in that it uses a big int and it just
takes the bytes from that which
means that so the idea is you have this
byte array
and you set bits on and off in the byte
array to indicate which
elements of the array that you have um
and the go implementation of bigint
will give you bytes to represent the
integer
you've created that is only as small as
it needs to be
as in big india and so you end up
with uh different size bitmaps in the
serialization format depending on which
bits are set
and um there's not not necessarily a
bias towards smaller either it's
it's sort of it doesn't actually save
you a ton but it just gives you
inconsistency
so i've got agreement amongst most of
the people that uh are concerned with
this
uh that we should just make it a fixed
width and then we can validate
the width of it against the number of
element of
elements in the array against a couple
other things so there's extra validation
there
and there's also an opportunity to
consider maybe changing it to little
endian
uh i'll look at that further and see
what we ended up with the javascript
side and
a couple of other places i think the
pierre goss
hamped as well uses little endians so i
think there's more standardization
around little endian
and it's easier to to mess with the some
of the
um the bits when you do when you've got
little nd just because we've got more
tools for that
so maybe we'll do that um but anyway
that's one thing and the other thing is
to
we're going to change a key union into a
kind union
um so that we we ditch a map and a
string key
um and just end up with the element
itself so it'll that'll save bytes on
the other end
so those two format changes will make a
break making it make it breaking
um but we'll bring it a lot closer to
what we have in our hand spec
so there's there's a lot of room here to
pull this in alignment um which is what
we tried to do last year
but now we're getting to do um and then
we
we have uh potential to read and write
this with our other libraries that we're
building for
amps so um that's all positive
um and along the way i added a
diagnostic for my printer to my seaboard
encoder parser
which was really fun so being able to
stick in cbor and
print out a really nice diagnostic
format it's um very satisfying
um and that's my week
next is eric
yeah so i also spent some time doing uh
hampty things
and adding some benchmarks to the same
libraries that rod is looking at and
just trying to get like a gross
statistical understanding of what's
going on in them um and that's
interesting we're trying to understand
some of the caching works there and
i don't know just get more graphs out of
the performance stuff there's
a little bit of work like that so far
but not a ton and so just
expanding um in code gen news i always
have a little bit
and kind of unions are now supported in
the go code gen
which is kind of cool if we do a total
review of like all of the completed
features in codegen now
we've got maps we've got lists we've got
unions now the keyed and the kind of
ones alike
we already had struck this map and we
got struck says tuple last week and we
have that struxx's string join for a
while of course we've got all the
scalars the string bytes in
lists links yeah this is a lot of things
so um there are still a couple more
features for which cogen can be
implemented but like we're really
getting down to the esotera and all
the like rarely used representation
modes those are the things that are left
now
so i'm starting to be able to use this
in alpha ways and
this is still generating more tests and
fixes but it is
i would call it alpha usable now i'm
starting to grind things out and then
see if i can wire them up and the answer
is like yeah actually i can
so um if anybody wants to play with
alpha things then i would say it is
beginning to be about that time
and that's about it keep that status
report right
thanks um next is michael
yeah let me pull up the list here
[Music]
oh come on too many things
okay all right um yeah so i did figure
out how to store
ipl d blocks in git lfs uh so i wrote a
little storage backend for that and i
wrote a feature for dagdb to test it out
and it's pretty rad
you can even um create a database
and give it with a github action as the
type of database
and then it will pull all the
credentials in the current environment
from a github action
and use that as its storage mechanism
it's pretty awesome um lfs is like
like one of the worst pieces of
technology i've ever had to reverse
engineer
but um so it's very slow but it is like
kind of amazing because it's just you
know github repos and everything it's
it's really nice
and it's not really noisy in the github
repo because it's l and lfs
um yeah i realized
trying to finish up that work that i
really really don't like
the tooling that we have right now for
trying to build uh things from our esm
libraries and so i sat down over the
weekend to try and
really build out the ipjs build tool
basically just
i just want a workflow where like we
write a very simple
um esm file or sorry
we write esm modules in javascript and
then we just have a couple named exports
that point at whatever things in source
or whatever like the thing that bulkers
wanted forever where we don't have all
these files in the root
and um and then this will generate
the right common js and esm and the new
package.json and everything you would
need to publish that as a universal
module that would just work everywhere
um so that is like 80 done now
um i think the the thing that really
tripped me up was i was overthinking it
you don't
actually need a compiler for most of
this stuff you can just manipulate the
ast and it's much much faster so
even the ast parsing manipulation i put
into workers so it's an incredibly fast
build tool as well
so that should be done pretty soon and
yeah that'll really
help us with publishing like all of our
modules now in all the modules in the
new js multi formats and block stacks so
yeah uh that's going um
fixing bugs and js multi formats i got
the tests running again because they had
broken
um because of that paladina bug in mocha
um and i wrote some more docs for ipld
in for dagdb
and that's what i did last week
any questions thanks
and of course like it's always like the
the last 20
are the easiest ones in software
projects
[Laughter]
no no i i think that i think the last 20
percent here is
is easy it's the it's the two percent
over that of like the bugs that we'll
find later
but yeah i think i think i think the the
finishing of this is actually not that
much work
uh cool um
uh should uh because i was wondering if
anyone's bringing up but we also had
like we're discussing about the whole
like jscid stuff
i give an update does anyone else want
to give an update on the like
perhaps um michael would be good if you
talk about like
because like we basically talked about
the transition plan to js
multi-formats can you give right right
so
pretty basically i think
i think what we landed is that all of
the changes that we want to make for js
multi-format
um are going to be accessible in jsc id
um pretty soon and all of the old
methods will print warnings but they'll
still work
um and so that'll be like a nice
transition path for people
um there was one kind of final sticking
point where i think a lot of you dropped
off
and and i think we ended up just not
doing that um
so i actually backed this out um we had
taken a pr in js multiformats to make it
look like an array buffer view so it had
like a dot buffer property that was a
unit 8 array and not a new js buffer and
that conflicted with the old property
that was a node.js buffer but it still
kind of worked if it was the right thing
but the issue with that is that because
it's potentially a view
then that buffer could be much larger
than the actual cid and so it's the
silent bad behavior
that kreptan and so i actually pulled
that out and now there is no buffer
property
and it will like throw if you try to
access it or write it to things
um and that's what we'll ship with for a
while in js multi-formats
and then we'll kind of look at the
landscape after all these changes have
landed
in a in jsc ids and decide if we want to
add it back or not
and that's kind of where all of that is
but yeah we have a much better
transition plan than we used to have
essentially is the net um i actually
checked
today i think that array buffers don't
have a buffer property
now typed arrays have but array buffer
was not
a ray buffer review it's called an array
buffer view
and those have a buffer property because
array buffers don't okay yeah i know i
know
because they they're the array buffer
sorry sorry i actually said that sorry
sorry i said that wrong
the buffer property that we added was
not a unto eight array it was an array
buffer
array buffers don't have a property
because they are the buffer property
an array buffer is a is a literal slice
of memory
and a ui data array is a view and a
human data ray and everything else that
is like an array buffer view
is like considered a view of that and
that includes
data view has the same properties as
well
okay so basically it's imprecise if we
talk about array buffers you should talk
about
array buffer views probably
so
this is this is so
and just like the awful
standards so
you probably are talking about typed
arrays because typed arrays all have
the same methods so that's you went to
eight array you and 16 array
into like you know like all of the
different view types um
array buffer view refers to those as
well as data view
and data view is like a view of an array
buffer
that you can then do operations for
every kind of typed array on so there's
just like it's like another thing
because we didn't have enough things
that were binary types in javascript we
had to have like another one
so that's yeah so an array buffer view
is like the standard for all of those
and it was trying to conform to that
i'm looking for the window okay um cool
yeah
anything else um
cool i guess then we close this meeting
in
a half an hour that's great
rod do you want to do you want to meet
after this real quick
so goodbye everyone i stopped the live
stream in the recording
bye and i